
Google AI for Developers
Models

Solutions
Code assistance
Showcase
Community
/


English
Sign in
Gemini API docs
API Reference
Cookbook

Gemini 2.5 Pro Experimental, our most advanced model, is now available! Learn more
Home
Gemini API
Models
Was this helpful?

Send feedback Gemini models
2.5 Pro experiment

Our most powerful thinking model with maximum response accuracy and state-of-the-art performance

Input audio, images, video, and text, get text responses
Tackle difficult problems, analyze large databases, and more
Best for complex coding, reasoning, and multimodal understanding
2.0 Flash spark

Our newest multimodal model, with next generation features and improved capabilities

Input audio, images, video, and text, get text responses
Generate code and images, extract data, analyze files, generate graphs, and more
Low latency, enhanced performance, built to power agentic experiences
2.0 Flash-Lite

A Gemini 2.0 Flash model optimized for cost efficiency and low latency

Input audio, images, video, and text, get text responses
Outperforms 1.5 Flash on the majority of benchmarks
A 1 million token context window and multimodal input, like Flash 2.0
Model variants

The Gemini API offers different models that are optimized for specific use cases. Here's a brief overview of Gemini variants that are available:

Model variant	Input(s)	Output	Optimized for
Gemini 2.5 Pro Experimental
gemini-2.5-pro-exp-03-25	Audio, images, videos, and text	Text	Enhanced thinking and reasoning, multimodal understanding, advanced coding, and more
Gemini 2.0 Flash
gemini-2.0-flash	Audio, images, videos, and text	Text, images (experimental), and audio (coming soon)	Next generation features, speed, thinking, realtime streaming, and multimodal generation
Gemini 2.0 Flash-Lite
gemini-2.0-flash-lite	Audio, images, videos, and text	Text	Cost efficiency and low latency
Gemini 1.5 Flash
gemini-1.5-flash	Audio, images, videos, and text	Text	Fast and versatile performance across a diverse variety of tasks
Gemini 1.5 Flash-8B
gemini-1.5-flash-8b	Audio, images, videos, and text	Text	High volume and lower intelligence tasks
Gemini 1.5 Pro
gemini-1.5-pro	Audio, images, videos, and text	Text	Complex reasoning tasks requiring more intelligence
Gemini Embedding
gemini-embedding-exp	Text	Text embeddings	Measuring the relatedness of text strings
Imagen 3
imagen-3.0-generate-002	Text	Images	Our most advanced image generation model
You can view the rate limits for each model on the rate limits page.

Gemini 2.5 Pro Experimental

Gemini 2.0 Flash

Gemini 2.0 Flash delivers next-gen features and improved capabilities, including superior speed, native tool use, multimodal generation, and a 1M token context window.

Try in Google AI Studio

Model details

Property	Description
id_cardModel code	models/gemini-2.0-flash
saveSupported data types
Inputs

Audio, images, video, and text

Output

Text, images (experimental), and audio(coming soon)

token_autoToken limits[*]
Input token limit

1,048,576

Output token limit

8,192

handymanCapabilities
Structured outputs

Supported

Caching

Coming soon

Tuning

Not supported

Function calling

Supported

Code execution

Supported

Search

Supported

Image generation

Experimental

Native tool use

Supported

Audio generation

Coming soon

Live API

Experimental

Thinking

Experimental

123Versions	
Read the model version patterns for more details.
Latest: gemini-2.0-flash
Stable: gemini-2.0-flash-001
Experimental: gemini-2.0-flash-exp and gemini-2.0-flash-exp-image-generation point to the same underlying model
Experimental: gemini-2.0-flash-thinking-exp-01-21
calendar_monthLatest update	February 2025
cognition_2Knowledge cutoff	August 2024
Gemini 2.0 Flash-Lite

Gemini 1.5 Flash

Gemini 1.5 Flash-8B

Gemini 1.5 Pro

Imagen 3

Gemini Embedding Experimental

Text Embedding and Embedding

AQA

See the examples to explore the capabilities of these model variations.

[*] A token is equivalent to about 4 characters for Gemini models. 100 tokens are about 60-80 English words.

Model version name patterns

Gemini models are available in either preview or stable versions. In your code, you can use one of the following model name formats to specify which model and version you want to use.

Latest: Points to the cutting-edge version of the model for a specified generation and variation. The underlying model is updated regularly and might be a preview version. Only exploratory testing apps and prototypes should use this alias.

To specify the latest version, use the following pattern: <model>-<generation>-<variation>-latest. For example, gemini-1.0-pro-latest.
Latest stable: Points to the most recent stable version released for the specified model generation and variation.

To specify the latest stable version, use the following pattern: <model>-<generation>-<variation>. For example, gemini-1.0-pro.
Stable: Points to a specific stable model. Stable models usually don't change. Most production apps should use a specific stable model.

To specify a stable version, use the following pattern: <model>-<generation>-<variation>-<version>. For example, gemini-1.0-pro-001.
Experimental: Points to an experimental model (not for production use). We release experimental models to gather feedback, get our latest updates into the hands of developers quickly, and highlight the pace of innovation happening at Google.

To specify an experimental version, use the following pattern: <model>-<generation>-<variation>-<version>. For example, gemini-2.0-pro-exp-02-05.
Experimental models

In addition to the production ready models, the Gemini API offers experimental models (not for production use, as defined in our Terms).

We release experimental models to gather feedback, get our latest updates into the hands of developers quickly, and highlight the pace of innovation happening at Google. What we learn from experimental launches informs how we release models more widely. An experimental model can be swapped for another without prior notice. We don't guarantee that an experimental model will become a stable model in the future.

Previous experimental models

As new versions or stable releases become available, we remove and replace experimental models. You can find the previous experimental models we released in the following section along with the replacement version:

Model code	Base model	Replacement version
gemini-2.0-pro-exp-02-05	Gemini 2.0 Pro Experimental	gemini-2.5-pro-exp-03-25
gemini-2.0-flash-exp	Gemini 2.0 Flash	gemini-2.0-flash
gemini-exp-1206	Gemini 2.0 Pro	gemini-2.0-pro-exp-02-05
gemini-2.0-flash-thinking-exp-1219	Gemini 2.0 Flash Thinking	gemini-2.0-flash-thinking-exp-01-21
gemini-exp-1121	Gemini	gemini-exp-1206
gemini-exp-1114	Gemini	gemini-exp-1206
gemini-1.5-pro-exp-0827	Gemini 1.5 Pro	gemini-exp-1206
gemini-1.5-pro-exp-0801	Gemini 1.5 Pro	gemini-exp-1206
gemini-1.5-flash-8b-exp-0924	Gemini 1.5 Flash-8B	gemini-1.5-flash-8b
gemini-1.5-flash-8b-exp-0827	Gemini 1.5 Flash-8B	gemini-1.5-flash-8b
Supported languages

Gemini models are trained to work with the following languages:

Arabic (ar)
Bengali (bn)
Bulgarian (bg)
Chinese simplified and traditional (zh)
Croatian (hr)
Czech (cs)
Danish (da)
Dutch (nl)
English (en)
Estonian (et)
Finnish (fi)
French (fr)
German (de)
Greek (el)
Hebrew (iw)
Hindi (hi)
Hungarian (hu)
Indonesian (id)
Italian (it)
Japanese (ja)
Korean (ko)
Latvian (lv)
Lithuanian (lt)
Norwegian (no)
Polish (pl)
Portuguese (pt)
Romanian (ro)
Russian (ru)
Serbian (sr)
Slovak (sk)
Slovenian (sl)
Spanish (es)
Swahili (sw)
Swedish (sv)
Thai (th)
Turkish (tr)
Ukrainian (uk)
Vietnamese (vi)
Was this helpful?

Send feedback
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.

Last updated 2025-04-01 UTC.

Terms
Privacy

English
